Israel's Ambassador to the United Nations Gilad Erdan said on Monday that he expects the United States to stop funding the United Nations if it votes to grant the Palestinian Authority (PA) full UN membership. In a statement issued days ahead of Friday's General Assembly meeting, Erdan said passing a resolution granting status and rights of a state to the PA is against the UN Charter. If successful, he said he expects the US to "completely" stop its funding to the UN and its institutions, citing American law.  "The Palestinians are once again taking advantage of the automatic majority and the moral decay of the UN," Erdan said. "After failing to obtain the status of a member state through the Security Council as required, they bypass the Council while trampling all the rules and bring the decision to the General Assembly." Erdan also said the resolution, if passed, will not change the situation on the ground but instead will "prove how disconnected the UN is from reality and rewards terrorism." Friday's meeting comes after the United States vetoed a Security Council resolution in April that would have recognized a Palestinian state. Images from eastern Rafah show people gathering their belongings and evacuating in cars, trucks, mule-drawn carts and on foot, after Israel’s military told civilians there to "evacuate immediately.”  The order comes a day after the country's defense minister told troops in Gaza to expect "intense action" in the city "in the near future." The current evacuation impacts about 100,000 people. Flyers were dropped from the air by the Israeli military warning residents and people in Rafah Camp, the Brazil Camp and the neighborhoods Al-Shabura and Al-Zohour that "remaining in these areas puts your lives in danger." It’s unclear whether the evacuation order signals a prelude to an assault but the city has become a central focus of the war. During nearly seven months of war, more than 1 million Palestinians have fled to Rafah, where Hamas is believed to have regrouped after Israel’s destruction of much of the strip’s north.