She’d traveled to a paradise island for a few months to do some soul searching, and Niki Benjamin, from the US, found her life moving in a completely new direction when her dog ran up to a stranger. It all began in late 2014, when Benjamin, a former music executive, took an extended trip to the Caribbean destination of St. Martin (Sint Maarten in Dutch,) one of her favorite places, “to figure things out.” “I’ve often found refuge and solace and made some pretty big life decisions just on vacation [there,]” she tells CNN Travel. “So it’s like my safe place.” Benjamin had been walking along the beach with her beloved pooch Dylan in tow when a man in a nearby restaurant caught his attention. “I saw him [Dylan] licking some shoes,” Benjamin tells CNN Travel. “And then I looked up, and I locked eyes with this man who became my husband.” Benjamin says she instantly “felt very comfortable” around Sandro Scarafile, a French chef who had been living in the Caribbean for two decades. “I didn’t know it, [but] I ate his food before I actually met him,” she adds, before recalling how they “were together always” after that chance meeting. She and Scarafile spent around four months in St. Martin together before Benjamin decided to head to Houston, Texas to care for her aging mother in August 2015. “He was like, ‘I’m coming,’” Benjamin recalls. “And I was like, ‘OK.’” A short while after they arrived in Houston, Scarafile pulled Benjamin’s mother aside and told her that he hoped to marry her daughter. The couple were married in 2015 and lived in Houston together for around eight years. However, as time went on, and Scarafile’s parents, who are based in Nice, got older, he felt the urge to be closer to them. Benjamin and Scarafile, who say that “Houston was never the end game,” began seriously considering relocating to France. “I’ve always been a person that’s kind of wanting to move, explore and feel different places,” says Benjamin, who was born and raised in New York. Thankfully, Benjamin’s brother volunteered to move to Houston to help with their mother, giving her the freedom to make the move if they chose to.