Umberto Motto had always dreamed of playing for Torino FC. He had dreamed of pulling on the team’s maroon shirt in front of thousands of adoring fans. And he had dreamed of hearing his name announced as he made his way onto the pitch at the Stadio Filadelfia. A local boy born in the northern Italian city of Turin and the captain of Torino’s youth team, Motto seemed destined to represent his boyhood club. His dream did come true – and sooner than he expected – but the day was a living nightmare. On May 4, 1949, Motto was giving a tour of Turin to two clients of his parents’ factory, which manufactured shirts for Torino and the Italian national team. Motto recalls a dense fog that hung over the city and says it hadn’t stopped raining for seven days straight, leading the river Po to burst its banks in places. So bad was the weather that Motto decided to abandon sightseeing in the city and take the two visitors up to the Superga hill and Superga Basilica that overlook Turin, hoping to at least send the tourists home with a view to remember. The weather, however, was even worse and the fog meant they could barely see a few metres in front of their faces, much less the city below. On their way back down into Turin, the trio stopped for coffee and Motto remembers conversing with the café owner about how unusually bad the weather had been. When they arrived back in the city, they were met by another unusual sight: the roads packed with cars all honking their horns. “We thought something good had happened,” Motto, now 93 years old, recalls to CNN. Motto returned to the Torino FC headquarters in the city where he was met by the building’s caretaker, Mario Lanati, who quickly ushered him upstairs. “Umberto, you have to know that something disastrous has happened,” Lanati told him. “The plane crashed.” A confused Motto replied: “Which plane?” Lanati’s answer would irrevocably change Motto’s life and the lives of everyone associated with Torino. The plane Lanati was talking about had been carrying almost the entire Torino first team from Lisbon, Portugal where it had been playing a friendly match against Benfica. With the approach to Turin-Aeritalia Airport affected by the weather conditions, the plane crashed into the side of the Superga hill, killing all 31 people on board. Among the dead were 18 of Torino’s first-team players, its coaches, Italian sports journalists, and flight crew. It remains one of the biggest sporting disasters in history and immediately wiped out one of the greatest teams Italian football has ever known. That Torino side, affectionately known as ‘Grande Torino’ due to its incredible success, had been on the brink of securing a fifth straight Italian league title, while its players also formed the backbone of the Italian national team at the time. The impact on the city and its people was devastating. Author Roberto Pennino spent years interviewing those affected and recounts the sense of loss in his book ‘Immortal Torino,’ which has been released in English for the 75th anniversary of the disaster. “These players who perished on Superga, they were really approachable,” Pennino tells CNN. “You could see them all over town. They went to the same restaurants, to the same cinemas, to the same bakeries as their supporters. “So when they perished, they were – as a team – missed deeply, but also in the city itself. All the places they would be seen, and people could have a chat with them. A lot of people felt like they lost a relative.”