Sexhow railway station was a railway station built to serve the hamlet of Sexhow in North Yorkshire, England. The station was on the North Yorkshire and Cleveland's railway line between  and , which opened in 1857. The line was extended progressively until it met the Whitby & Pickering Railway at . Sexhow station was closed in 1954 to passengers and four years later to goods. The station was located  south of Stockton, and  west of Battersby railway station. History The station was opened in April 1857, when the line from Picton was opened up as far as . Mapping shows the station to have had three sidings in the goods yard, coal drops and a crane. The main station buildings were on the westbound (Picton direction) side of the station. The station was south of the village that it served, and was actually in the parish of Carlton in Cleveland, which has led to speculation that it was named Sexhow to avoid confusion with  railway station, which was originally named Carlton.
John Brugman, O.F.M., was a 15th-century Franciscan friar, who became a renowned preacher in the Netherlands Biography Brugman was born at Kempen in the Electorate of Cologne, towards the end of the preceding century; died at Nijmegen, Netherlands, 19 September 1473.   Brugman became a lector of theology, Vicar Provincial and one of the founders of the Cologne Province of the Observants, a reformed branch of the  Friars Minor. For twenty years his name was celebrated as the most illustrious preacher of the Low Countries. The saying still exists in that region, "to speak like Brugman", meaning to speak eloquently. A friend of Denis the Carthusian, it was at his suggestion that the latter wrote his work: De doctrinâ et regulis vitae Christianæ, dedicating it to Brugman.   Brugman also supported the foundation of the Brothers of the Common Life, a congregation, devoted to the interests of education, established by two priests, Gerhard Groote and Florentius Radewiyns. He addressed them in the two letters which are still extant to strengthen them in the persecution to which they were subjected.   Brugman died in the odour of sanctity and is commemorated in the Martyrologium Minoritico-Belgicum on 19 September.
Eugene Salvatore "Gene" DiNovi (born May 26, 1928) is an American jazz pianist. DiNovi was born in New York City. He worked with Joe Marsala and Chuck Wayne while a teenager. He was very active live and on record in the late 1940s, working with Buddy DeFranco, Benny Goodman, Chubby Jackson, Brew Moore, Boyd Raeburn, Buddy Rich, Artie Shaw, Lester Young. He worked extensively as an accompanist for vocalists, starting with Peggy Lee in 1949–1950; he also played behind Tony Bennett and Anita O'Day. He recorded with Lena Horne multiple times in the late 1950s and early 1960s and also accompanied her on tours of Europe. During this time, he also worked with his own small groups; his sidemen included Danny Bank, Johnny Carisi, Bill Crow, Tony Fruscella, and Dave Schildkraut. He began working more as a studio musician and film score composer in the 1960s. Toward the end of the decade he played with Carmen McRae, then moved to Canada to take a position as a house pianist with the CBC in Toronto. In the 1980s he worked with Ruby Braff and toured and recorded in Japan, and continued to be active as a performer into the 1990s, working with James Campbell, Don Thompson, Memo Acevedo, Dave Young, and Terry Clarke.
4-Digits (abbreviation: 4-D) is a lottery in Germany, Singapore, and Malaysia. Individuals play by choosing any number from 0000 to 9999. Then, twenty-three winning numbers are drawn each time. If one of the numbers matches the one that the player has bought, a prize is won.  A draw is conducted to select these winning numbers. 4-Digits is a fixed-odds game. Magnum 4D is the 1st legalized 4D Operator licensed by the Malaysian Government to operate 4D. Soon thereafter, other lottery operators followed suit, as this is a very popular game in Singapore and Malaysia. The recently launched Daily Derby 4D Blue and Green and 5D jackpots of WTL-M is also growing popular now. Singapore Pools is the sole provider of gambling games in Singapore.  4-D and lottery 6/49 are two of the most popular. A similar 4-D game with its prize structure fully revealed can be found in Taiwan.
Anglo-Saxon charters are documents from the early medieval period in England which typically made a grant of land or recorded a privilege. The earliest surviving charters were drawn up in the 670s: the oldest surviving charters granted land to the Church, but from the eighth century, surviving charters were increasingly used to grant land to lay people. The term charter covers a range of written legal documentation, including diplomas, writs and wills. A diploma was a royal charter that granted rights over land or other privileges by the king, whereas a writ was an instruction (or prohibition) by the king which may have contained evidence of rights or privileges. Diplomas were usually written on parchment in Latin, but often contained sections in the vernacular, describing the bounds of estates, which often correspond closely to modern parish boundaries. The writ was authenticated by a seal and gradually replaced the diploma as evidence of land tenure during the late Anglo-Saxon and early Norman periods. Land held by virtue of a charter was known as bookland.
Lieutenant General William Pelham Yarborough (May 12, 1912 – December 6, 2005) was a senior United States Army officer. Yarborough designed the U.S. Army's parachutist badge, paratrooper or 'jump' boots, and the airborne jump uniform. He is known as the "Father of the Modern Green Berets." He was descended from the Yorkshire House of Yarborough. Yarborough was a distant cousin to such British noble figures as the Baron Deramore, Lord Alvingham, the Duke of Buccleugh and the Marquess of Bath. Early life William Pelham Yarborough was born May 12, 1912 in Seattle, Washington. He is the son of Colonel Leroy W. and Addessia Yarborough. He attended high school at San Rafael Military Academy in California and later at Columbus, Georgia. In 1931, Yarborough enlisted in the United States Army, obtaining an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy a year later in 1932. At his graduation from West Point in June 1936 Yarborough was sworn in as a second lieutenant by General of the Armies John Joseph Pershing. He was assigned to the 57th Infantry Regiment, Philippine Scouts at Fort McKinley, Luzon where he remained until February 1940, when he was transferred to the 29th Infantry Regiment at Fort Benning, Georgia. He volunteered for the airborne forces and joined the newly formed 501st Parachute Battalion in late 1940 and was given command of Company "C". Later, as Test Officer for the Provisional Parachute Group in 1941, he designed the paratrooper's boot, the paratrooper's uniform, the parachutist's qualification badge, and a number of aerial delivery containers for which he received U. S. patents.
The Château de Kaysersberg (also: Schlossberg) is a ruined castle in the commune of Kaysersberg in the Haut-Rhin département  of France. History The castle was built for Albin Woelflin, imperial bailiff for Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor, around 1220. The site was acquired in 1227 by the lords of Horbourg and Ribeaupierre. It had an important strategic role as it allowed the Empire to close off one of the routes across the Vosges Mountains towards Lorraine. The circular keep is the oldest part of the castle and one of the first of this type in the upper Rhine valley. It was designed at the same time as the keep at the Château de Pflixbourg. The first curtain wall, which included the keep, was replaced after 1261 by a wall enclosing the keep, according to a contemporary plan, which allowed an uninterrupted circuit of the walls and strengthened defences on the side likely to be attacked.  In the 14th century, the castle was the residence of the imperial provost or bailiff. Following a fire, the enceinte was raised to 4 m. In the second half of the 15th century, the castle defences were modernised in response to developments in artillery and firearms; the crenels were closed with wooden shutters, the merlons were equipped with firing slits and the round walk was completely covered. In this period, the castle was merely a sub-bailliage and personnel were heavily reduced. During the German Peasants' War (1524/5), the castle was besieged. It was restored by Lazarre de Schwendi in 1583.
Vaclav Smil (; born 9 December 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst. He is Distinguished Professor Emeritus in the Faculty of Environment at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.  His interdisciplinary research interests encompass a broad area of energy, environmental, food, population, economic, historical and public policy studies. He has also applied these approaches to energy, food and environmental affairs of China. Early life and education Smil was born during WWII in Plzeň, at that time in the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (present-day Czech Republic). His father was a police officer and his mother a book keeper. Growing up in a remote mountain town in the Plzeň Region, Smil cut wood daily to keep the home heated. This provided an early lesson in energy efficiency and density.   Smil completed his undergraduate studies at the Faculty of Natural Sciences of Charles University in Prague, where he took 35 classes a week, 10 months a year, for 5 years. "They taught me nature, from geology to clouds," Smil said. After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office. He married Eva, who was studying to be a physician. In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and also Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the US, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders. "That was not a minor sacrifice, you know?" Smil says. Over the next two years, Smil completed a doctorate in Geography at the College of Earth and Mineral Sciences of the Pennsylvania State University.
Lameia (minor planet designation: 248 Lameia) is a typical main belt asteroid. It was discovered by Austrian astronomer Johann Palisa on 5 June 1885 in Vienna and was named after the Lamia, a lover of Zeus in Ancient Greek mythology. 248 Lameia is orbiting the Sun with a period of  and a low eccentricity (ovalness) of 0.067. The semimajor axis of  is slightly inward from the 3:1 Kirkwood Gap. Its orbital plane is inclined by 4° to the plane of the ecliptic. On 27 June 1998 an occultation of the 8th magnitude star PPM 236753 (HD 188960) by 248 Lameia was timed by five observers near Gauteng, South Africa. The chords produced a rough size estimate of a  ellipse. The size estimate based on IRAS Minor Planet Survey data is . The rotation rate of this object is commensurate with the rotation of the Earth, requiring observations from different locations to build a complete light curve. These yield a rotation estimate of  with a brightness variation of  magnitude in amplitude. The same data set gives a size estimate of , in agreement with earlier measurements.
The Brno chair (model number MR50) is a modernist cantilever chair designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Lilly Reich in 1929-1930 for the bedroom of the Tugendhat House in Brno, Czech Republic.  The design was based on similar chairs created by Mies van der Rohe also working with Lilly Reich, such as the MR20 chair with wicker seat from 1927; all building on earlier designs of Mart Stam. The Brno chair has become a modern furniture classic. It has very clean lines, consisting of a steel frame in a single piece, bent into a C-shape from the middle of the back, round past the front edge of seat (to create arms), and back under the seat to create a cantilever, with taut seat and back upholstered in leather.  There are two versions of the chair, one in tubular steel and the other in flat steel.  The metal was originally polished stainless steel; some modern examples are chrome plated.
