Coldplay are a British rock band formed in London in 1997, consisting of vocalist and pianist Chris Martin, lead guitarist Jonny Buckland, bassist Guy Berryman, drummer Will Champion, and manager Phil Harvey. Regarded as one of the most polarising musical groups in the world, they are known for their live performances and impact on popular culture. The members of the band initially met at University College London, calling themselves Big Fat Noises and changing to Starfish, before settling on the current name. After releasing Safety (1998) independently, Coldplay signed with Parlophone in 1999 and wrote their debut album, Parachutes (2000). It featured breakthrough single "Yellow" and received a Brit Award for British Album of the Year and a Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album. The group's follow-up, A Rush of Blood to the Head (2002), won the same accolades. X&Y (2005) later saw the completion of what they considered a trilogy, being nominated for Best Rock Album as well. Its successor, Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends (2008), prevailed in the category. Both albums were the best-selling of their years, topping the charts in over 30 countries. Viva la Vida's title track also became the first British act single to lead the Billboard Hot 100 and UK Singles Chart simultaneously in the 21st century. In subsequent albums, Coldplay further diversified their repertoire, with Mylo Xyloto (2011), Ghost Stories (2014), A Head Full of Dreams (2015), Everyday Life (2019), and Music of the Spheres (2021) exploring genres like electronica, R&B, ambient, disco, funk, gospel, blues, and progressive rock. Additional endeavours for the band involve philanthropy, politics, and activism, as they donate 10% of their revenue to charity and endorse many humanitarian organizations. In 2018, a career-spanning film directed by Mat Whitecross was made available in cinemas to commemorate their 20th career anniversary. With over 100 million albums sold worldwide, Coldplay are among the best-selling music acts of all time. In 2014, Fuse ranked them as the sixth-most awarded group in history, which includes having the most Brit Award wins by a band. They currently own three of the 50 highest-selling albums in the United Kingdom and the most number-one albums in the country without missing the top (nine). In 2021, "My Universe" made them the first British group to debut atop the Billboard Hot 100. Coldplay have two of the 15 highest-grossing tours of all time as well, while the British Phonographic Industry recognise the band as "one of planet's most influential and pioneering" acts. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame has A Rush of Blood to the Head on their 200 Definitive Albums list and "Yellow" on their Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll exhibit. In 2022, Forbes lauded the group as the standard for the alternative scene. Time also ranked them among the most impactful climate action leaders across the globe.
